The Pokemon Trading Card Game Online is regarded as one of the best online TCGs, far above MTGO and regarded about as well, sometimes better, than Hearthstone. However, getting started in it is sometimes esoteric, and confusing when most top players spend money despite there being no option to spend money. This guide should explain how to get started with the PTCGO, and explain things new players may not realize.

# **NOTICE ON SPENDING MONEY ON THE GAME**
I can not in good faith recommend spending money on the game for new players at this point in time, due to the security issues in the game. It is *possible* that the security issue is only with the official forum, which I would not recommend using until it is known whether it is at fault. However, even before the official response to the recent account hacks was published, people were asked if they did things it recommended not doing, and to my knowledge none of them did. This doesn't lend to the credibility of the official explaination (that they either shared their account with a friend, or logged in with their in-game account to an unofficial website), and them sharing their account with a friend makes very little sense when you account for the fact that there is decisive evidence of the in-game name of the hacker, and that there is proof that he is the only, or one of two, hacker(s). If you are okay with the possibility of getting your account hacked and losing the money (as support refuses to give compensation for people with hacked accounts), or believe that you won't get hacked for one reason or another, then there are 3 ways to spend money on the game. The first is to spend money on the physical game; every physical product from the BKP set onwards, most from BW onwards, and some from HGSS onwards, come with 1 or more special code cards that give you the same content online as in real life. The second is to buy code cards individually; eBay is the recommended platform. This is technically against eBay's ToS for the seller if they give you no physical content, however some sellers include free, slow shipping while emailing the codes immediately as a grey-area workaround. From my knowledge, no sellers have ever been banned from eBay for selling codes. **It is important to remember that it is only allowed to sell the *codes*; both the buyer and the seller can be banned from the game for buying/selling either redeemed items or cards.** The final method is only available in Canada; the game has in-app purchases called Gems there, which enable getting tradeable items from the in-game shop. For some cards, this is the only way to get them tradeable, which makes them extremely valuable in trading. Apart from this, it is often approximately the same price as getting them in real life, which makes doing that preferable.
