---
title: Combining Spread Damage and Devolving
---
## Premise
Many decks that involve evolved Pokemon as part of their main strategy have Basics and Stage 1s with 50-80 HP. Thus, if you can damage multiple Pokemon at the same time, and then devolve them all in one batch, you'll KO 3-5 Pokemon at the same time. Obviously, this is very beneficial in terms of Prize Cards. This also has a light combo with Counter Catcher and Counter Energy. This page lists spread damage dealers and Pokemon with attacks or abilities that devolve the opponent's Pokemon that combine well.
## Damage Dealers
### Greninja BREAK
Greninja BREAK, previously a Tier 1 deck in it's own right, is mostly outclassed in Expanded, and most of it's tools for consistency got rotated out starting in 2017-2018. However, it still hovers around Tier 2-3, and due to it's main issue being consistency, can win a tournament if you draw well enough. However, due to being relatively easily OHKO'd by major threats in Standard in a 2HKO-heavy meta (though that could change in October with promo Solgaleo), makes it need a straightforward way to take care of the Pokemon that can OHKO it, of which every major one is Stage 1-2. Thus, with a devolving Pokemon it can do much better, albeit still having consistency issues. The devolving Pokemon needs to be splashable, as Greninja is already starved for deck space, and can be easily KO'd due to Greninja running lots of Rescue Stretchers due to it's relatively low HP. Thus, Espeon EX does well, as it can be searched out, thus becoming a soft tech.
### Beedrill EVO
Beedrill, when combined with Kakuna CRI, becomes very similar due to Greninja. However, it deals less damage per turn, but can easily utilize Ariados and Virbank City Gym in Expanded, making it deal slightly less damage overall; it deals 40 to the active, while dealing 80-120 to any Pokemon of the opponent's.
### Promo Tapu Koko
This card isn't a very good main attacker; it's best at spreading damage onto Pokemon while you and the opponent are still setting up. However, in a deck built upon spread damage, it's nearly essential for the early game. There isn't much to say about this one, as it has no interesting interations.
### Necrozma-GX
This card is somewhat weak, but it's status as a basic GX lets it act as a wall in the early game, and use its GX move in the late game to KO the opponent's main attackers in combination with a devolver.
### Umbreon-GX/Glaceon-GX
Their attack, Shadow/Frost Bullet, lets them deal moderate amounts of damage to the active, while spreading damage to the bench. You could easily get an active Stage 2 and a benched Stage 1 KO'd after devolving. They are hard to OHKO, but can very easily be 2HKO'd; thus, Acerola is nearly essential, especially with Eevee SUM allowing it to instantly re-evolve. Glaceon-GX heavily outclasses Umbreon, however. Glaceon's ability is extremely good, as well as being able to utilize Splash Energy to quickly recover from a KO; with one in standby on the bench, you can easily swap to that one, and by the time you're KO'd again you'd nearly always have the old one back in action thanks to Splash Energy and Eevee SUM.
## Devolvers
### Espeon-EX
Espeon is heavily splashable; a deck without much room can easily benefit from just one of them. However, it isn't hard to KO, so is best as a tech in decks with the ability to deal spread damage against Stage 1 and 2 decks. For this, however, it is very useful; it can devolve everything for a single colorless, and against decks that deal 130 instead of 170 can avoid a KO. It is important when considering this that using it will KO all of an opponent's attackers; however, ensure that using it doesn't negatively impact you, due to things like status conditions being healed on Pokemon that were not KO'd. It is useless when you don't get a KO, however, due to you having no chance to keep the opponent from re-evolving on the next turn.
### Porygon-Z BUS
Porygon-Z, as a Stage 2, requires being a core part of the deck. However, it is much better than the only other real option, Espeon-EX. With Devolution Spray, you can devolve the opponent up to 4 times on-demand, plus more for every time it gets KO'd or you set up a 2nd Porygon. It also doesn't use your attack for the turn, keeping it from getting KO'd without Guzma or a snipe attack, as well as letting you continue spreading damage. Due to all Eeveelutions being an effective Stage 0.5 due to Energy Evolution, when combined with Porygon and Necrozma-GX or Tapu Koko it is currently the best option if you want to build a deck around this strategy.
